<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Dedication</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="dedication" epub:type="dedication">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dedication</h2>
				<p>
					<span>To</span><b epub:type="z3998:personal-name"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bridgen</b>
				</p>
			</header>
			<p><b>Madam</b>,</p>
			<p>This new Edition of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The English Baron</i> begs permission to acknowledge your patronage and protection, of which it has long since felt the advantages.</p>
			<p>You cast an eye of favour upon his first appearance, under all the disadvantages of an incorrect and very faulty impression; You took him out of this degrading dress, and encouraged him to assume a graceful and ornamental habit.</p>
			<p>You did still more for him. You took upon yourself the trouble to revise and correct the errors of the first impression; and, in short, you gave him all the graces necessary to solicit and obtain the notice and approbation of the Public.</p>
			<p>The Author cannot fully enjoy her success without acknowledging from whence she in great measure derives it.</p>
			<p>You, Madam, as becomes the daughter of Richardson, are more solicitous to deserve the acknowledgements of a grateful heart, than to receive them. You have no reason to suspect me of flattery, but of vanity you may, in wishing to mention your name thus publicly as the patroness and friend of,</p>
			<footer role="presentation">
				<p><b>Madam</b>,</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your most obliged humble Servant,</span>
					<br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:signature">Clara Reeve.</b>
				</p>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline"><time datetime="1780-09-01"><abbr>Sept.</abbr> 1, 1780</time>.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
